.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH gdirs 7 "January 23 2005" "Mac OS X" "Mac OS X Darwin customization" 
.SH NAME
.B gdirs 
\- display directory stack as gui menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
gdirs [-f] [-F] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Type
.B gdirs
and you will get a pop-up window that displays up to twenty previously visited directories. Pick whatever directory you want and hit "OK" and the terminal will cd to that directory. Type  
.B gdirs -f 
and both the terminal and Finder will change to the newly selected directory. Type  
.B gdirs -F 
and only the Finder will change to the newly selected directory.

The non-gui version is (at present) a bit more flexible and fully-featured. Type 
.B dirstack [n] 
where n is an integer [defaults to 20] and you will get the n most recent directories visited, listed with numbers next to them.Ê The command 
.B cd? 
is the same. You may then type (eg) cd7 and the terminal will change directory to that listed on line 7 of the dirstack output. 
.B cp7 
or 
.B cpath7 
copies the directory path in line 7 into the clipboard copy/paste buffer.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -f
both the terminal and Finder will change to the newly selected directory.
.IP -F
the Finder (only) will change to the newly selected directory
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.chemistry.ucsc.edu/~wgscott/mystuff/gdirs.html
.SH FILES
The following aliases should be defined in one's
.I aliases.local 
file:

.B alias dirstack="dirdump; typeset -U dirs_shared ; dirstack"

.B alias cd?="dirdump; typeset -U dirs_shared; dirstack"

.B alias gdirs="dirdump; typeset -U dirs_shared; dirstack > /dev/null ; guidirs"
 
.SH BUGS
Deleted directories are not purged from the stack.
.SH AUTHOR
W. G. Scott
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cd? (1),
.BR cpath[n] (1),
.BR dirstack\ [n] (1)

