.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH cds 7 "April 7, 2005" "Mac OS X" "Mac OS X Darwin customization" 
.SH NAME
.B cds
\-  change the terminal pwd to match that of the frontmost Safari window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cds
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cds,
when issued from the command prompt in Terminal, iTerm, or xterm,  will cd 
into the directory corresponding to the web page displayed in Safari.  The
purpose of this is so that if you own the web page displayed in Safari having the url
.B http://www.myplace.org/foo/index.html 
and the file 
.B index.html 
resides in (for example) 
.B ~/Sites/foo, 
typing the command
.B cds
results in the command
.B cd ~/Sites/foo
being issued.
For this to work, you must have exported the environment variables
.B PUBLIC_HTML
and
.B MY_DOMAIN
from your .zshrc file or equivalent.  For the above example, you would want
the lines
.B export PUBLIC_HTML="/Users/$USER/Sites"
and
.B export MY_DOMAIN="myplace.org"
in your .zshrc file.  (If you put in www.myplace.org, that will work too, but
if you use simply myplace.org, BOTH www.myplace.org and myplace.org will be 
recognized in your browser.  If these are not matched by what is displayed
in the browser, a message is returned that states that the name does not appear
to be part of the file system.  The function is a zsh shell script that invokes
an osascript that invokes a javascript to communicate with Safari. 
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The environment variables 
.B PUBLIC_HTML
and
.B MY_DOMAIN
must be exported as described above.
.SH AUTHOR
 William Scott 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR spath (7),
.BR eds (7)


