.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH eds 7 "April 7, 2005" "Mac OS X" "Mac OS X Darwin customization" 
.SH NAME
.B eds
\-  edit the web page on your server that is displayed in Safari
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eds
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B eds,
when issued from the command prompt in Terminal, iTerm, or xterm,  will cd 
into the directory corresponding to the web page displayed in Safari and will
then open the corresponding html file on the server in your favorite editor.  
The
purpose of this is so that if you own the web page displayed in Safari having the url
.B http://www.myplace.org/foo/index.html 
and the file 
.B index.html 
resides in (for example) 
.B ~/Sites/foo, 
typing the command
.B eds
results in the commands
.B cd ~/Sites/foo; $HTML_EDITOR index.html
being issued.
For this to work, you must have exported the environment variable
. B HTML_EDITOR 
either explicitly in your .zshrc file, or else by having initialized
the 
.B
edit
function provided in this collection. (Otherwise the html editor
defaults to vim, which is a reasonable html editor when used with syntax
highlighting.)
In addition, you must have exported
the environment variables
.B PUBLIC_HTML
and
.B MY_DOMAIN
from your .zshrc file or equivalent.  For the above example, you would want
the lines
.B export HTML_EDITOR='see'
and
.B export PUBLIC_HTML="/Users/$USER/Sites"
and
.B export MY_DOMAIN="myplace.org"
in your .zshrc file in order to edit the file index.html on the server using
the command-line editor utility "see" installed with SubEthaEdit. Other
command-line options like vim, bbedit, "open -e", and so on may also be used.
(If you put in www.myplace.org, that will work too, but
if you use simply myplace.org, BOTH www.myplace.org and myplace.org will be 
recognized in your browser.  If these are not matched by what is displayed
in the browser, a message is returned that states that the name does not appear
to be part of the file system.  The function is a zsh shell script that invokes
an osascript that invokes a javascript to communicate with Safari. 
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The environment variables 
.B PUBLIC_HTML
and
.B PUBLIC_HTML
and
.B MY_DOMAIN
must be exported as described above.
.SH AUTHOR
 William Scott 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR spath (7),
.BR cds (7)


