.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH man 7 "March 19, 2005" "Mac OS X" "Mac OS X Darwin customization"  
.SH NAME
.B man
\-  Augmented man command that includes run-help and info in addtion to command man.. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man [-options] [foo]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The augmented 
.B man 
zsh function requires the 
.I corrected and enhanced 
zsh function
.B run-help 
and 
.B /usr/bin/info 
or 
.B /sw/bin/info
as well as the 
.B command man. 
I had to fix up a few things in run-help
so be sure to autoload the corrected version that handles multiple
.B $HELPDIR 
entries and also gives usable error codes.  These features
are required to get this function to work right.

.B man
combines the zsh 
.B run-help 
function with the traditional 
.B command man 
and 
the 
.B GNU info 
function.  If a help-file is found in 
.B $HELPDIR, 
it is read
by the zsh-function 
.B run-help
, otherwise run-help defaults to the man
command and displays the man page.  The first aspect of this functionality
.B requires that you first generate the help files from the ZSH man page.
When this is done, each individual function and built-in command in the
ZSH will have its own help-file entry.  
.B Run the function build-helpfiles
to generate these the first time.  The file 
.B $ZDOT/environment 
will then
automatically set the 
.B $HELPDIR 
variable the next time a shell is started.

This function also uses the function
.B settab 
to show the named process 
running and then resets itself with settab (so iTerm users will have 
man commandname or more commandname or info commandname displayed in the tab.

.SH AUTHOR
 William Scott
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR man (1),
.BR info (1),
.BR run-help (1)


