.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH sd 7 "May 14 2006" "Mac OS X" "Mac OS X Darwin customization" 
.SH NAME
.B sd 
\-  change the CodeTek Virtual Desktop Display to the indicated Desktop 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sd 
[
.B -a Application
] [
.B DesktopName 
|
.B DesktopNumber
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sd
changes the display to the indicated CodeTek Virtual Desktops DesktopName
or DesktopNumber.  If the -a flag is provided and followed by the name of
an application, that application is moved to the indicated Desktop. If no
application name is provided, it is assumed that the user's terminal program       
is to be moved to the indicated Desktop. An accompanying zsh completion 
function called _sd completes applications and DesktopNames.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
You must purchase and install CodeTek Virtual Desktops and configure it before 
this function will be of any use. It can be obtained from the following
website:  http://www.codetek.com/ctvd/
Please note this software is not yet intel-compatible.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.B sd 4
switches you and your terminal program to Desktop #4.
The command
.B sd Main
switches you and your terminal program to Desktop named Main. (The completion function finds the names of all of your desktops and presents them in a menu upon hitting the tab key).
The command
.B sd -a Mail Main
switches application Mail.app to the desktop named Main, leaving you and your terminal program in the original location,
and finally, the command
.B sd -a Mail 10
switches application Mail.app to the desktop number 10, leaving you and your terminal program in the original location.
.SH AUTHOR
William Scott  


